<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Putting More Cards on The Table (2014)</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<meta name="author" content="Shlomi Fish" />
<meta name="description" content="Shlomi Fish’s Homepage" />
<meta name="keywords" content="" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="./style.css" type="text/css" media="screen, projection" title="Normal" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="./print.css" type="text/css" media="print" />
<style type="text/css">
a:hover { background-color: palegreen;}
</style>
</head>
<body>

<h2 id="intro">Introduction</h2>

<p>
Since <a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/">“Putting
    All the Cards on the Table (2014)”</a> was written and finalised, I kept
linking to individual sections of it, and it proved to be popular and many
people liked it or individual sections of it. One thing I now regret about it
is the word "All" because I now realise that <b>honesty is a process</b>,
and so is <b>enlightenment</b> and if you stop searching for a bigger and
better “truth”, you stop being honest.
</p>

<p>
Nevertheless, after over a year, I feel that a sequel to it is in order,
collecting and organising <b>a (hopefully large) subset</b> of the various
insights I collected in many posts and insights on various social media
outlets, some stories, screenplays, aphorisms, etc. So here goes.
</p>

<pre>
* Honesty/Enlightenment/etc. is a process.
    - Must always seek to be more honest and a better person.
    - never rest on your laurels.
* Time &gt;&gt;&gt; Money.
    - Many NPOs/NGOs have a lot of money and too little volunteer time.
    - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarah_Michelle_Gellar saying that she now
    has enough time to donate to causes which she considers worthy (despite
    now being a mother).
* Hubris and Neophilia in moderation are important.
* Amateurs/Hackers/Geeks better than the pros reloaded:
    - Christina Grimmie.
        - Feeling Good.
* Sexual attractiveness → Competence (And vice-versa).
* Honest vs. Dishonest advertising.
    - See https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_RRyniZG0Jo&amp;google_comment_id=z12eztertmvkerlxg04cfrrzczisvxa4gc4 .
* Avicii - Wake me up.
    - What is wisdom?
    - Cynicism (what neo-tech calls "mysticism").
        - our main enemy as a civilisation and as an individual.
* Change brings change.
    - Sesame Street.
    - Crime&amp;Punishment → Ayn Rand → My screenplays &amp; stories.
    - The Tanakh vs. Shakespeare.
* How to run an election.
    - http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/human-hacking/human-hacking-field-guide-v2/homecoming_queen.html
    - Snyder in http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Buffy/A-Few-Good-Slayers/ongoing-text.html
    - Contrast with Hollywood Hogan in Suddenly Susan.
* Independence.
    - asking/paying people for help.
    - asking/paying people for advice.
    - taking responsibility for your own actions.
* There are no coincidences.
* Fiction is serious business.
    - Humour is also very serious.
* Pygmalion effect vs. Golem effect.
    - → Be the Pygmalion effect for anything.
* Must be united against our common enemy.
    - Not Microsoft.
    - Not the MPAA, the RIAA or whoever.
    - Not the U.S. Government.
    - Not even entropy.
    - Cynicism!
        - What Neo-Tech calls "mysticism".
        - Doubting people.
        - Finding faults in benevolent, heroic, people.
        - Red Tape.
        - Creating problems where none exist.
* Models for Web revenue.
    - Flickr.
    - Bandcamp.
    - Collecting money for freeing a work into CC-by/X11L/PD/etc.
    - Non-intrusive ads.
        - Project Wonderful.
            - More like a way to provide pulibicity for others, than to
            earn a lot of cash.
* The Qoheleth/The Warrior King/The Hacker King/The best-of-the-best-of-the-best/The Saladin
    - Who is John Galt?
    - Some Hacker Monarchs of the past:
        - Samantha Smith, Jim Henson, Walt Disney, Isaac Newton, Cardinal
        Richelieu, Larry Wall, Jules Verne, Buffy, Capt. Jean-Luc Picard,
        Saladin, George Washington/etc., Thomas Edison, Ayn Rand,
        The Beatles.
        - Shlomi Fish (me)!
    - Not [necessarily] the Roman Catholic pope.
        - Is not chosen - someone who wants it the most badly.

* Summer Glau.
    - Why she's the Warrior Queen.
    - Suffered through a lot.
        - Wanted to be a ballerina.
        - Decided to pursue an acting career instead.
        - Moved to L.A. by herself.
        - Name cognate with Summerschool at the NSA / SMGellar / Buffy Summers
            - Milady de-Winter
        / etc.
        - Also played under Joss Whedon.
    - She wants it more badly than I do.
* It's not a crisis - it's a learning opportunity.
    - Don't get mad - get even.
    - Chuck Norris
* Why confidence implies sloppiness.
    - Christina Grimmie.
        - Very humble and awkward starts.
        - Has Improved.
        - Feelin' Good - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kYX8sjIzjGw
    - Publish or Perish.
    - Please all→Please none.
* Correction: no force should be done against the Iranian bomb.
    - The Iranian bubble is "slowly" expanding.
* Time → Progress
* Stand-up Philosophy.
    - The Mel Brooks’ skit.
* "Back to Nature".
    - Environmentalism.
    - Humans' advantage was always their technology.
    - https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/483261506537009153
        - «Ur much more likely to find a good SO in a #scifi #con (w a perfectly healthy mind and body) than you are at the middle of the wilderness.»
    - Turning the Sahara desert into a lively forest using less than 1% at the
    time of the U.S. Defence budget.
* Objectivism, Buffy, Perl.
    - stagnation due to lack of external influences.
* Aristotle→Larry Wall : everything has a beginning, a middle and an end.
    - Why films and the good T.V. shows will eventually end.
* A 100% open hardware RISC CPU/GPU machine.
    - DARPA ?
* Couples don't own each other, their love lives or their sex lives.
    - it's OK to flirt.
    - it's bad to be jealous and possessive.
    - There's nothing ethically wrong with being a "slut"/"whore", a
    professional prostitute, acting in a porn film, being polyamorous, etc.
        - https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/478025441983213569
            - «A #woman is a #lady even if she is or was a #porn actress or a
              #prostitute . Treat her with #respect, be #honest to her - be a
              #gentleman»
        - As long as you are honest and sincere about it.
            - Deceit/lying are bad/immoral (unless naturally if done for
            self-defence)
        - All of those things may eventually be bad for your self-esteem.`
        - https://plus.google.com/+ShlomiFish/posts/3PVhg1H6qqT :
        ««««««
A small anecdote from a story I got an idea for, which seems like the epitome
of blasphemy and political incorrectness, but still is pretty cool:

Three Celtic girls from the village where they provided the Greek with salt,
decide to travel to Damascus and beyond. They hitchhike a ride with some
Assyrian merchants who eventually disarm them and tell them at sword point that
they'll rape them.

The girls consult between themselves and decide that if they're going to have
sex, they might as well cooperate and enjoy it. So they have sex with the men
willingly. And after a few times the three men lose stamina while the girls
are not completely satisfied and cry for more! ☺
        »»»»»»

* Intelligence/epsionage:
    - Not about keeping secrets away from people who really really want to
    know.
    - Keeping the whole mass of data and information away from the general
    populace.
    - Best policy: never deny or admit anything you think may be a problem.
        - http://shlomif.livejournal.com/tag/soldier
* Vindictiveness/lack of mercy.
    - "Solve the mideast's problems in 20 minutes by dropping an atomic
    bomb on Israel/Tehran".
        - Don't wish for bad things to happen even for your worst enemies.
            - the economic collapse.
* Geeks taking over.
    - Penny from Big Bang Theory is a wonderful geek and hacker.
    - Amateurs better than the pros.

* Big money / Big business
    - Not a new phenomenon:
        - http://www.reddit.com/r/Judaism/comments/294u2n/pro_and_against_big_business_and_big_money_in_the/
    - We probably won't get rid of it now or ever.
    - http://www.paulgraham.com/inequality.html - Paul Graham’s Inequality and
    Risk.
        - http://www.paulgraham.com/gap.html - Mind the Gap

* What "Fitness" really means - who are the fittest people?
    - Why we should encourage people to be more able rather than expect
    everyone to get everything they "need" or just "want".
        - The Atlas Shrugged "From each according to their ability to each
        according to their needs" thought experiment.
    - Money as the tool to pay/quantify for the time of able people.
        - Different people’s time is worth differently.
            - Emma Watson vs. a completely obscure, beginning, actress, who
            does not play well.
                - EmWatson is more "able".
    - Darwinian/Biological Fitness.
    - "Fit" started to mean a [sexually] attractive
    member-of-the-approriate-sex (= MOTAS) in British slang.
        - Not necessarily a very athletic one.
    - Some level of the so-called "physical fitness" may be desirable for
    good self-esteem, for confidence, and for extra attractivity points.
        - Not required.
        - Not a panacea.

* The Precious Jewellery
    - No female Jewelers.
        - Orthodox Jewish Jewellers who must no shake hands with women.
    - An indication of waste rather than status.
        - El-cheapo Jewellery looks nice, too.
    - http://slashdot.org/story/06/10/26/0040204/lab-created-diamonds-come-to-market/funny-comments
    - Gold/silver/etc. have industrial utility.

* Red tape as the antithesis of hacking.
    - Accountants.
    - clerks and bureaucrats.
    - Get rid of unnecessary regulation.
    - Use computers as our slaves.
        - Give you answers.
    - Trust people.
        - No cynicism/mysticism.

* "There's more than one way to do it."
    - Fanatical classical libertarianism.
        - Not about preventing state welfare, but about allowing people
        to get rich.
            - Paul Graham about the Beatles’ “Tax Man” song.
    - Different countries/states/cities/localities may be better for different
    people.
    - "He who changes place, changes his fortune."
        - Old Hebrew Proverb.

* Humpty Dumpty song.
    - Death is irreversible.
        - As long as you're not dead or terminally ill, you still can improve.
    - A limit to what even the largest and best resources can buy you.
        - Can't stop progress.

* More about Saladin.
    - Liberate Palestine one fortress by the other.
        - Antithesis for "For in tricks you should do your war"
    - Show mercy, respect, forgiveness and chivalry.
    - Give the option to abuse one's power.
        - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingdom_of_Heaven_%28film%29
    - Fighting against https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_I_of_England
        - Lost his horse - gave him two.
        - Got sick - gave him the care of his doctor.
    - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Shlomif/Saladin_Style

* Social networks:
    - Freenode/etc.
    - Reddit and its subreddits
    - Google-Plus.
    - Twitter.
    - Facebook.
        - Problems with it.
    - YouTube / imgur / github / deviantart / etc.

* Never rest on your laurels.

* "No small roles - only small actors"
    - Rosh Gadol vs. Rosh Qatan.
    - Joseph in Prison in the Jewish Bible
    - http://gilmoregirls.wikia.com/wiki/Lorelai_Gilmore who started as a
    cleaner in the inn, and ended up managing it.
    - Quote from http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/Emma-Watson-applying-for-a-software-dev-job/
    - "It's not a crisis - it's a learning opportunity."

* Why fiction is serious business.
    - Why humour is serious business.

* People saying about Facebook or Twitter or IRC or MMORPGs what they said
about television - or about Socrates.

*   - Galileo vs. Newton
    - Socrates vs. Plato and Aristotle
    - Tact is the art of making a point without making an enemy.
    - Eminem's song about putting a contract on his wife.
    - What you can't say - http://www.paulgraham.com/say.html
    - The Internet as a shield.
        - Even if people don't appreciate you on one forum or sub-forum,
        there are often others.

* From https://plus.google.com/+ShlomiFish/posts/i5Z8XdqTdwE :

* The proper way to run an election campaign:

««««««
I detailed the way I thought of to run an election campaign here: http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/human-hacking/human-hacking-field-guide-v2/homecoming_queen.html - on that section, the story’s Alpha Female, Eve “Erisa” Siegel, admits that winning the title of homecoming queen won’t make much of a difference to her, but that she still wants it, and instead of a smear or insult campaign, she supports and respects the other candidates.

Furthermore, you shouldn't give up if you lose ( #NeverGiveUp : Matsuoka Shuzo [松岡修造 ] - あきらめかけているあなた (NEVER GIVE UP!!) [English] ), and https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentatonix released videos on YouTube before, while, and after their performance on the televised Sing-off competition (and I find them very nice). What I describe Principle Snyder doing in http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Buffy/A-Few-Good-Slayers/ is that after he has lost the election for mayor, he offered the actual winner to be his assistant and to help him as much as he can, and he eventually become mayor in the next election .

Hollywood depicted a worse way to run an election campaign with Hulk Hogan on Suddenly Susan where he maintains a false image instead of being himself - https://duckduckgo.com/?q=hollywood%20hogan%20suddenly%20susan (these were my favourite two episodes of that show). And this whole ordeal materialised with https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arnold_schwarzenegger 's “Girly Men” campaign for the Californian  governor elections, but really could have been avoided.
»»»»»»

* "Wine, Women, and Song".

There are three important things in life for one’s self-esteem:

1. Good food and drinks ("Wine") - see http://judaism.stackexchange.com/questions/27195/maimonides-advice-about-dieting

2. Good company of any sex ("Women").

3. Clean, creative, fun, however unprofessional and low quality. ("Song"): Christina Grimmie - "Feelin' Good"

If you're a wage slave, who does not eat well, does not enjoy the company of
his family or friends, and does not have fun, then not only are you unhappy,
but you are really unproductive and lazy:
http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/#laziness_vs_productivity
.

* Classical music:
    - museum pieces.
    - See http://esr.ibiblio.org/?p=4229
    - https://plus.google.com/+ShlomiFish/posts/BKeGPY7cCVT
    - Remakes / covers / fanfiction.
        - Lessig’s Remix book.
        - crossovers / mash-ups.

* https://twitter.com/AlexGMusic8/status/474284103349456896
    - «I just genuinely don't understand the need for complete and utter 100%
      nakedness in the women's locker room at the gym. Ahhhhhh #help»
    - What my friend noted about him being a "heterophobe" who cannot stand
    seeing other men naked.
        - That only women will get it.
    - Noting that people should still be free to experience (or produce)
    porn or soft porn or erotica or whatever in the privacy of their
    own home.

* http://www.reddit.com/r/writing/comments/2api0a/how_to_write_essays_in_2014_stylewise_and/

««««««
This essay/article which someone linked to on Freenode's ##programming is a prime example of how you should write essays in this day and age:

http://brikis98.blogspot.in/2014/05/dont-learn-to-code-learn-to-think.html

Mainly it has:

1. Many images that are often relevant.

2. Short paragraphs.

3. Easily skimable text.

4. Many text embellishments such as bullets, itemised lists, bold, etc.

This is as opposed to a text with long paragraphs/etc.

This is not a new trend. Russians pride themselves on having the best 19th century and 20th century novelists, but even https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crime_and_Punishment is much less usable and popular than those of French, British and  American novelists: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twenty_Thousand_Leagues_Under_the_Sea ; https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Three_Musketeers ; https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adventures_of_Tom_Sawyer ; https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Little_Women ; https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jane_Eyre ; https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treasure_Island ; https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hobbit ; https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland ; https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Railway_Children - all novels that aged extremely well.

Even a large part of the Jewish Bible / Tanakh / Old Testament is extremely succinct and to the point (not sure about the so-called New Testament).

Sesame Street was accused of encouraging illiteracy and trying to sugarcoat learning, and other stuff like that, but it improved the standard for television, cinema and the written word considerably.

Similar criticisms had been voiced about Socrates in ancient Greece, and now people say similar things about Twitter, Facebook or https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/My_Little_Pony:_Friendship_Is_Magic (♥!).

I however, am pretty sure that the young generation of today which receives many "bad" influences from such social media mediums and popular culture franchises, will grow and mature nicely enough. And as sexualised or violent My Little Pony, the Big Bang Theory or Game of Thrones or whatever are, they've got nothing on the Old Testament... ☺

»»»»»»

* Temporal logic:
    - things change.
    - people change.
    - people's opinions change.
    - people's capabilities/skills/abilities change.
    - Societies change.
        - The world changes.

* Design/choose your own clothes.
    - T-shirts/etc. with a:
        - inscription
        - logo or photo
        - URL and/or Twitter Account.
        - Hash-tag.
    - Accessories/etc.
    - A dog.

* Play to lose:
    - http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=sharp-english-play-to-lose
    - "Every great truth once started as a blasphemy".
        - http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=lessig-about-rewarding-the-critics
        - "What a good day it was to die."

</pre>

<h2 id="licence">Licence</h2>

<p>
This work is copyright by <a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/">Shlomi Fish</a>
and licensed under the
<a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/" rel="license">Creative
    Commons Attribution-Non Commercial licence version 3.0</a> (or any later
version). See <a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/meta/copyrights/">my
interpretation of it</a>.
</p>

</body>
</html>
